# Getting and Cleaning Data Project

This repository was created for the third module in the Data Science Specialization "Getting and Cleaning Data"

## Summary

The goal of this project is to prepare a tidy data set in R that can be used for later analyses. This data is related to wearable computing. Companies like Fitbit, Nike, and Jawbone Up are racing to develop the most advanced algorithms to attract new users. The data linked represent data collected from the accelerometers from the Samsung Galaxy S smartphone. A full description is available at the site where the data was obtained (Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones Data Set):

http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones 

The `run_analysis.R` script is built to work on this data:

https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip  

This script does a set of steps to get and clean the data, and it can be ready to be analyzed later. Below are these steps:
1. Downloads the data set from the web if it does not already exist in the working directory.
2. Loads the data into data frames
3. Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set.
4. Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement. 
5. Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set
6. Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names. 
7. From the data set in step 6, creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.
8. Writes the tidy data set from step 7 in a file called `tidyData.txt`

## Repository files

This repository contains 3 main files:

- `run_analysis.R` - This script gets and cleans the data to have a tidy dat set that can be used to do later analysis.
- `tidyData.txt` - It contains the tidy set generated by the `run_analysis.R` script.
- `CodeBook.md` - It contains the definitions of all the variables, along with units, of the `tidyData.txt` file.

## Please note

The `run_analysis.R` script uses the libraries `data.table` and `dplyr`
